v2 profiles

Two ICC version 2 (v2) sRGB profiles are provided below, one with XYZ black point scaling to zero, and one without. The 'black scaled' profile has the preferred rendering intent in the header set to 'perceptual'. and the 'no black scaling' profile has the preferred rendering intent in the header set to 'relative colorimetric'.

Both profiles contain the standard linearized Bradford D65 to D50 chromatic adaptation tag (this tag was often not present in older sRGB profiles), and the media white point tag is set to D50 (as is required for ICC v4 profiles). This avoids the inappropriate color casts that older sRGB v2 ICC profiles sometimes produced when the absolute colorimetric intent was used.

The 'black scaled' profile will work correctly when either Black Point Compensation (BPC) is on in the CMM/application, or the other profile transform to be used for the conversion is also black scaled. Black scaled profiles are needed when BPC is desired for the conversion but the CMM to be used does not support BPC. Most v2 sRGB profiles in current use are black scaled because they are intended to be used as the source profile in conversions where the destination profile perceptual intent will be used (v2 perceptual transforms typically include black scaling).

The 'no black scaling' profile produces sRGB colorimetry in the PCS that is more accurate to what a viewer of a sRGB calibrated display will observe in the reference sRGB viewing conditions. This is the case when the display has been calibrated to include the viewer-observed black level such as one might achieve with a non-contact monitor calibrator or other means to include ambient effects. It should be used in situations where greater colorimetric accuracy is desired, e.g. as the destination profile for preview on calibrated sRGB displays where the viewer-observed black has been included. However it should be noted that most current LCD displays, even those that use the sRGB primaries and gamma, have a higher white point luminance and dynamic range than the sRGB reference display. To produce accurate preview colorimetry on these displays they should be accurately profiled, instead of using an sRGB profile.

The 'no black scaling' profile can be used with BPC on or off in the CMM. If it is used with BPC on the results should be the same as when using the 'black scaled' profile. If it is used with BPC off it will produce un-black-scaled media-relative colorimetry: if the source encoding has tones darker than the destination encoding black point they will be clipped, and if the source black point is higher than the destination black point the source black point will be accurately reproduced.

Note that these profiles were previously named 'sRGB_IEC61966-2-1_noBPC.icc' 'sRGB_IEC61966-2-1_withBPC.icc' to indicate whether black scaling had been applied in the profile. They have been renamed to reduce ambiguity over their use with black point compensation.

Terms of use

To anyone who acknowledges that the files "sRGB_IEC61966-2-1_no_black_scaling.icc" and "sRGB_IEC61966-2-1_black scaled.icc" are provided "AS IS" WITH NO EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTY, permission to use, copy and distribute these file for any purpose is hereby granted without fee, provided that the files are not changed including the ICC copyright notice tag, and that the name of ICC shall not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written prior permission. ICC makes no representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose.